Duffy Hellman comes in different forms.
Duffy Hellman one is seven hundred sixty eight bits in length the film and two is 1024 bits in length.
Duffy Hellman five is one thousand five hundred thirty six bits in length once again the longer the
key length the more secure.
But the downside is more processing power would be required now just to reiterate asymmetric key algorithms
are used in deep ends today not for bulk encryption of data but they help with the establishment of
a shared secret and also used for other things like authentication which I'm gonna talk about in a moment
symmetric key algorithms such as a s are used for bulk encryption of data so we've covered confidentiality
or encryption.
Let's look at the second goal which is integrity.
We want to ensure that data has not been tampered with.
In other words we want to know that the data has traversed the Internet or other network unchanged between
the two parties data integrity uses algorithms known as hashing algorithms also known as trap door or
message digests.
These are one way algorithms unlike encryption algorithms which can be reversed hashing algorithms convert
arbitrary data into a fixed length hash.
An example would be MDA five or message digest algorithm 5 which has a fixed length of 128 bits now
to demonstrate hashing notice.
I could take a piece of arbitrary information let's say my name and I can hash it in this case using
Shaw Shaw or Secure Hash Algorithm is more secure than MDG 5.
This is the hexadecimal Valley or Shaw and the binary Valley or Sha nodes if I change one value for
instance making that David one and hash it again notice the entire hash changes.
But notice it's of a fixed length I could put a bunch of people's names in there.
And how should a game notice the entire hash changes.
But is of a fixed length.
I could go and copy some text from let's say USA Today
arbitrary length
and I could take the Encyclopedia Britannica put it through an empty five hash and come up with 128
bits so for example I could take that USA Today article put it into an empty five hash generator and
notice it will come up with 128 bit hash value or I could replace that with let's just say my name and
we'll come up with 128 bit hash value hashing is non reversible because data is lost.
You cannot take one hundred and twenty eight but empty five hash reverse it and come up with the Encyclopaedia
Britannica but you can take the Encyclopedia Britannica hash it and come up with 128 bit value.
Please note that the hash will change as I've demonstrated.
If any part of the input value changes.
So with hashing we can take data of arbitrary length put it to an empty five or Shaw hash.
In this case it's empty five and come up with a fixed 128 but hash valley you cannot take the 128 bit
hash value and reverse the process and come up with the original data.
It is a one way function or trap door function they are various hashing algorithms that can be used
in D5 once again is 128 bits and B five is not recommended today in networking environments SHA 1 is
160 bits in length short to is German 56 or fiber and 12 bits in length and SHA 3 is scheduled for release
in 2012.
Just be aware that there are various hashing algorithms once again short 2 is what's recommended in
today's networking environments so as an example if Peter wanted to send data to Sarah ensuring confidentiality
and integrity the following would happen Peter's private information that no one else except Sarah should
read is encrypted firstly with an encryption algorithm like a yes.
Now in this case we're assuming that a shared secret or shape key has been derived.
So assuming that that's happened Peter can encrypt the data using a symmetric key algorithm like a s.
So the clear text information is encrypted into ciphertext.
This provides confidentiality Peter then takes the encrypted text or ciphertext and hashes it with a
hashing algorithm like show Endy 5 which comes up with a fixed length hash this will ensure data integrity
because if any part of the data is changed remember the hash will also change so Peter takes the clear
text encrypted with an algorithm like a yes to come up with ciphertext e hashes that encrypted text
and comes up with a hash he then pins the hash to the encrypted ciphertext and sends it to Sarah Sarah
upon receipt of the data in this case the encrypted ciphertext wants to make sure that the data hasn't
been tampered with before going through all the effort of decrypting the text so Sarah will take the
encrypted text and hash it herself to come up with a empty five or shall hash she will then compare
the hash that she derived with a hash appended to the encrypted data only if the hashes are the same
does she bother decrypting the text now if the hashes are the same it means that the data hasn't changed
in transit if the hashes are the same Sarah can decrypt the data by reversing the ace encryption knowing
that the data hasn't been tampered with.
However that being said what stops Joe hacker receiving the data changing it so manipulating the data
before it reaches Sarah encrypting it with a yes hashing that fake data with let's say Shaw and appending
a new hash to the data and then transmitting it to Sarah Sarah has no way of knowing that the data has
been manipulated because when she reverses the process by hashing this new data her hash will be the
same as Joe Hacker's hash that he appended to the new data.
So to combat that what Peter needs to do is use something called hash message authentication code or
H Mac and the two variants of this you have h Mac MDT 5 and H Mac Shaw and what Peter needs to do is
take the data of arbitrary length so in other words the data that he wants to send to Sarah plus a secret
key that only Sarah and he knows and now hash those two values with empty five or Shaw to get the hash
that will combat Joe hacker from manipulating the data because Joe hacker won't know what the secret
key is that Peter and sarah are using in combination with the hashing algorithm Joe hacker will not
know what the secret key is.
So when he hashes the data Sarah will know that the data has been manipulated because the hash that
she derives will not be the same hash Sarah will be taking the encrypted data in combination with the
secret key and hashing those two together to come up with her hash.
Joe hacker will not know what the secret key is.
So when Joe hacker hashes the data he's hash will not be the same as the new hash that Sarah derives.
And she will therefore know that the data has been tampered with.
Only Peter and sarah know what that secret key is not Joe hacker.
So he can not successfully manipulate the data and derive the same hash value thus data integrity is
provided with H Mac in combination with MDG 5 and shore.
The third goal to accomplish is authentication.
Now authentication is knowing that data received is the same data that was sent and that the claim sender
is in fact the actual sender.
Now we've already spoken about integrity.
Now we are looking at authenticating appear to make sure that there are actually who they say they are.
This goes beyond validating the source attempting to access a service during initial logging.
You should also validate that the source has not been replaced by an attacking host in the course of
the conversation which is known as session hijacking.
You want to make sure that the person that you talking to is the person that they say they are and that
they haven't been replaced by a hacker.
There are two types of authentication so we could authenticate rather one to write it to using either
appreciate key which is a secret key value entered into each peer manually and is used to authenticate
the pier.
Or we could use RSA signatures which encrypt the hash with a private key.
So firstly appreciate key in this example Peter needs to be authenticated by Sarah in this case.
Peter takes the Duffy helm and shared key that they derived depreciate key that was agreed upon with
Sarah which should have been done out of band and other information relating to IP sec.
Any hashes that with either MDG 5 or Shaw any attaches the hash to a packet with these ID information
which may be the IP address or hostname that is used for the VPN.
Sarah can then hash her local copy of the information which includes the agreed upon appreciate key
and derive an empty five or shall hash she can then compare her locally derived hash with a hash that
you receive from Peter if they are the same.
She knows that Peter has the same preshow key as she does and she can thus authenticate Peter if the
hashes are different.
She knows Peter does not have the correct appreciate key and therefore the VPN is not set up.
The second option is to use digital signatures digital signatures have multiple advantages including
the automatic exchange of keys without the need of programming static authentication keys on multiple
devices.
This allows for scalability the key lengths are also a lot greater appreciate keys should be changed
on a regular basis and in reality that often doesn't happen another advantage of digital signatures
is non repudiation which means you cannot deny being involved in a conversation because you are the
only person that has your private key so the way it works is Peter in this example takes the Duffy Hellman
shape key and other information and hashes it in a very similar way to appreciate keys.
But notice the appreciate key is not in this list that hash is now signed with Peter's private key.
And remember that Peter is the only person that has that private key that creates what's called a digital
signature.
So a digital signature is created when information is encrypted with a private key.
Please remember that if something is encrypted with someone's private key only that person's public
key can decrypted Peter now sends that information to Sara Sara takes the received signature from Peter
and decrypt sit with Peter's public key which he had previously received from Peter.
That will result in the original hash that Peter created Sara not takes.
The same information that she has locally and hashes it herself to derive her own hash of the various
parameters.
She then compares the two hashes if they are the same.
She knows firstly that Peter has all the correct information.
She also knows that this information could only have come from Peter because only Peter's public key
can decrypt something encrypted with Peter's private key.
So the digital signature proves that the information came from Peter and that all of this information
is correct she has thus been able to authenticate Peter.
Now the reverse will happen for both preset keys and digital signatures.
Peter will authenticate Sara so there mutual two way authentication either by using appreciate keys
or by using digital signatures.